# What is an Inclusive Institution?

## Introduction

By virtue of happenstance, modern schools have become beneficiaries of the
progressive tradition. There is no exhaustive promulgation of the advance of
progressive politics without countenance of how that activism has indelibly
changed all facets of the school. It is a particular facet of this experience
that I wish to dwell on. When dissecting the modern public school, the vantage
points for accumulation of progressive predilections are many. As active
institutions, schools must designate by some design what are the decisions that
will guide conduct of agents within on pragmatic and ideological grounds. This
should not be a surprise to anyone as any organization must formally develop and
envelop themselves as actors within some contextual framework.

## Invitation to Inquiry

What are the sources of philosophical inquiry that shape such an institution? Do
the subsequent policies developed give satisfactory answers to these questions?
Is the act of existence itself progress towards these inquiries? What is the
nature of the formalisms employed that service the institution? What is the
mission statement of the institution? Does the nature of the institution allow
for public analysis? Does the incumbent administration treat with hostility
discourse that is critical of the institution? Do they distinguish between
criticism aligned with their mission statement? These are answers that beg for
immediate remedial discovery and often their existence is a venture to
disambiguate between the lofty ambitions from the prima facie reality.

## Nature of this Inquiry

What I seek to extrapolate from this formal analysis of purpose is a proper
extrication of organizational will. What follows is an ambitious attempt to sate
my appetite for clarity. I wish to illuminate, with the formal apparatus
mentioned prior, to document what an inclusive institution is and what it is
not. When assay analysis of progressive politics, at times I become despondent
with the divergence I see in the earnest proclivities to act faithfully with the
high-minded idealism of progressivism and the postulate meandering of
*Realpolitik*. It is no design of mine to insist that the latter has no place;
surely the world as we know it would not be navigable without its triumph. What
I want is wave away the ambiguity that political actors often resort to when
they feel the encroachment of their political rivals.

## Hierarchical Scaffold of Theory Resting on a Substrate of Realism

Realism is no anodyne to the failure of idealism. Often the two are seen
competitors vying for the affection of humans. They are often presented as a
tense pairing where the expectation is that one party is moments away from
consuming the other. What is so troubling is not the false dichotomy per se, but
the equivocation that demands a mutually exclusive platform for politics where
addressing one aspect of the duality is necessarily at the expense of the other.
I wish to surmise is that there is no politics without either one. My attitude
to the matter is that while they cannot both occupy the same pidgeon hole the of
political economy, there can be constructed a relatively intuitive structure
that positions these facets into a functional whole.

## *Realpolitik*, the Ruthless Broodmare of Industry

Much like the mind is borne out of the trivial machinations of the corporal
body, the dignity and majesty of idealism is held aloft by the calculating
and ruthless designs of realism. *Realpolitik* is the mechanical instructions
that prove a certain idealistic end is possible. It is not incumbent on it to
fulfill lofty ambitions of the heart. It knows only function and seeks only
industry. At this point, it must become abundantly clear not industry proper but
industry *sine qua non* the condition that is ensnared in my words. By way of
mild tangent, I demand one behold the reliance of the former on the latter.

## Progressivism, our Dear Hegemon

My wider point becomes clear and my motivation for writing should incline into
focus. I am no opponent of progressives by any stretch of the imagination. I do
not seek to undo their investments nor do I cling to any specious sacrilege of
their place in society. The warring period of culture and politics has
terminated and it has rendered **Progressism** the current winner. Whatever
dissatisfactions one has with the state of politics must be rendered through the
overgrowing lenses of progressivism. This state of affairs might have not been
the case if there were a viable political program to progressivism as we
understand it. In a parallel universe, there might have been two rival
left-leaning programs. Either through the virtue of an angel or the machinations
of a devil, we have our political landscape set for us and our choices
constrained. I accept all of these with a whole heart and do not seek to injure
the politic body in anyway. What I do seek is redress of grievances that are
had in the shadow of rhetoric.

## The Analysis of the Rhetoric of Inclusivity

Now that I have laid bare the primitive intellectual scaffolding of a school
drenched in theory, I can now attest to the true lamentations of my soul. For a
school to call itself inclusive is to align itself concordantly with the times.
Progressivism theory is to schools as spines are to vertebrates. I wish to
preemptively exonerate the institutions viscously entangled in this ideological
overcoat. It should be held against a soul that the immediate viscera of
administration is to reach for progressive theory to distill thereof
managerial function. After all, they have a school to govern. That is not what
is in contention. Save one the accusation. What instigates this investigation is
the feasible deception involved in conferring to oneself progressive monike
Woreds

## The Dead Horse of Demanding that Progressivism be more than Rhetoric

competitors
